apps/owox/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing & Advanced Usage

> This document is intended for contributors and advanced users who want to work on the OWOX Data Marts CLI locally, customize its behavior, or understand its internal structure.
>
> If you're just looking to **get started quickly**, please refer to the [Quick Start guide](../../docs/getting-started/quick-start.md).

A command-line interface for running OWOX Data Marts application. This CLI provides a simple way to start the pre-built OWOX Data Marts server with frontend and backend components.

<!-- toc -->

- [Usage](#usage)
- [Local Development: npm link](#local-development-npm-link)
- [Commands](#commands)
- [FAQ: Understanding the `bin` Folder](#faq)
<!-- tocstop -->

## Usage

<!-- usage -->

```bash
$ npm install -g owox
$ owox serve
Starting OWOX Data Marts...
Starting in production mode...
Starting server on port 3000...
$ owox --help
USAGE
  $ owox COMMAND
...
```

<!-- usagestop -->

## Local Development: npm link

For local development and testing of this CLI, especially when it's not published to a public npm registry, you can use `npm link`. This command creates a symbolic link from your local package to the global npm directory, allowing you to run `owox` from any directory on your system as if it were globally installed.

### Using `npm link`

To link your local `owox` CLI globally, navigate to the `apps/owox` directory and execute:

```bash
npm link
```

After successfully linking, you can run `owox` commands from any directory:

```bash
owox serve --port 8080
```

### Using `npm unlink -g owox`

If you need to remove the global symbolic link to your local `owox` CLI, navigate to the `apps/owox` directory and execute:

```bash
npm unlink -g owox
```

This will remove the global link, and `owox` will no longer be accessible globally unless re-linked or installed through an npm registry.

## Commands

<!-- commands -->

- [`owox serve`](#owox-serve)
- [`owox help [COMMAND]`](#owox-help-command)

## `owox serve`

Start the OWOX Data Marts application in production mode

```bash
USAGE
  $ owox serve [-p <value>]

FLAGS
  -p, --port=<value>  [default: 3000] Port number for the application

DESCRIPTION
  Start the OWOX Data Marts application in production mode

EXAMPLES
  $ owox serve
  $ owox serve --port 8080
  $ owox serve -p 3001
  $ PORT=8080 owox serve
```

## `owox help [COMMAND]`

Display help for owox.

```bash
USAGE
  $ owox help [COMMAND...] [-n]

ARGUMENTS
  COMMAND...  Command to show help for.

FLAGS
  -n, --nested-commands  Include all nested commands in the output.

DESCRIPTION
  Display help for owox.
```

<!-- commandsstop -->

## FAQ

This section explains the purpose of the files located in the `bin` directory of the CLI.

### Why are there files in the `bin` folder (`dev.cmd`, `run.js`, `dev.js`, `run.cmd`)? Why do some have a `.cmd` format?

The `bin` folder contains the executable entry points for your CLI. Their presence and format are designed to support different operating systems and operational modes (development/production).

- **`run.js` (and `run.cmd`)**: These are the primary "production" entry points for your CLI.

  - **`run.js`**: This is the main executable file for Unix-based systems (Linux, macOS). The `#!/usr/bin/env node` (shebang) line at the beginning tells the operating system to execute this file using Node.js. This file launches the compiled version of your CLI (from the `dist` folder).
  - **`run.cmd`**: This is the equivalent of `run.js` for Windows operating systems. Windows does not understand shebangs, so a separate `.cmd` (or `.bat`) file is required to explicitly instruct the system to execute the Node.js script using the `node` interpreter.

- **`dev.js` (and `dev.cmd`)**: These are entry points specifically designed for **development**.
  - **`dev.js`**: This executable file is for Unix-based systems when running in development mode. Notice the shebang line `#!/usr/bin/env -S node --loader ts-node/esm --disable-warning=ExperimentalWarning`. This allows Node.js to run your TypeScript code **without prior compilation** by using the `ts-node/esm` loader. This significantly speeds up development as you don't need to wait for compilation every time you make changes. The `development: true` flag is passed to `@oclif/core` to enable development-specific features.
  - **`dev.cmd`**: This is the Windows equivalent of `dev.js`, also used for running in development mode with `ts-node/esm`.

In summary, the `.cmd` files ensure compatibility with Windows, while the `run` and `dev` pairs provide distinct entry points for the "production-ready" (compiled) CLI version and the active development version (directly from TypeScript source files).

Commit message:

chore: update package dependencies and improve local development instructions

apps/owox/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing & Advanced Usage

> This document is intended for contributors and advanced users who want to work on the OWOX Data Marts CLI locally, customize its behavior, or understand its internal structure.
>
> If you're just looking to **get started quickly**, please refer to the [Quick Start guide](../../docs/getting-started/quick-start.md).

A command-line interface for running OWOX Data Marts application. This CLI provides a simple way to start the pre-built OWOX Data Marts server with frontend and backend components.

<!-- toc -->

- [Usage](#usage)
- [Local Development: npm link](#local-development-npm-link)
- [Commands](#commands)
- [FAQ: Understanding the `bin` Folder](#faq)
<!-- tocstop -->

## Usage

<!-- usage -->

```bash
$ npm install -g owox
$ owox serve
Starting OWOX Data Marts...
Starting in production mode...
Starting server on port 3000...
$ owox --help
USAGE
  $ owox COMMAND
...
```

<!-- usagestop -->

## Local Development: npm link

### Prerequisites

- run `npm run build -w @owox/backend` in the root directory to build the backend package

For local development and testing of this CLI, especially when it's not published to a public npm registry, you can use `npm link`. This command creates a symbolic link from your local package to the global npm directory, allowing you to run `owox` from any directory on your system as if it were globally installed.

### Using `npm link`

To link your local `owox` CLI globally, navigate to the `apps/owox` directory and execute:

```bash
npm link
```

After successfully linking, you can run `owox` commands from any directory:

```bash
owox serve --port 8080
```

### Using `npm unlink -g owox`

If you need to remove the global symbolic link to your local `owox` CLI, navigate to the `apps/owox` directory and execute:

```bash
npm unlink -g owox
```

This will remove the global link, and `owox` will no longer be accessible globally unless re-linked or installed through an npm registry.

## Commands

<!-- commands -->

- [`owox serve`](#owox-serve)
- [`owox help [COMMAND]`](#owox-help-command)

## `owox serve`

Start the OWOX Data Marts application in production mode

```bash
USAGE
  $ owox serve [-p <value>]

FLAGS
  -p, --port=<value>  [default: 3000] Port number for the application

DESCRIPTION
  Start the OWOX Data Marts application in production mode

EXAMPLES
  $ owox serve
  $ owox serve --port 8080
  $ owox serve -p 3001
  $ PORT=8080 owox serve
```

## `owox help [COMMAND]`

Display help for owox.

```bash
USAGE
  $ owox help [COMMAND...] [-n]

ARGUMENTS
  COMMAND...  Command to show help for.

FLAGS
  -n, --nested-commands  Include all nested commands in the output.

DESCRIPTION
  Display help for owox.
```

<!-- commandsstop -->

## FAQ

This section explains the purpose of the files located in the `bin` directory of the CLI.

### Why are there files in the `bin` folder (`dev.cmd`, `run.js`, `dev.js`, `run.cmd`)? Why do some have a `.cmd` format?

The `bin` folder contains the executable entry points for your CLI. Their presence and format are designed to support different operating systems and operational modes (development/production).

- **`run.js` (and `run.cmd`)**: These are the primary "production" entry points for your CLI.

  - **`run.js`**: This is the main executable file for Unix-based systems (Linux, macOS). The `#!/usr/bin/env node` (shebang) line at the beginning tells the operating system to execute this file using Node.js. This file launches the compiled version of your CLI (from the `dist` folder).
  - **`run.cmd`**: This is the equivalent of `run.js` for Windows operating systems. Windows does not understand shebangs, so a separate `.cmd` (or `.bat`) file is required to explicitly instruct the system to execute the Node.js script using the `node` interpreter.

- **`dev.js` (and `dev.cmd`)**: These are entry points specifically designed for **development**.
  - **`dev.js`**: This executable file is for Unix-based systems when running in development mode. Notice the shebang line `#!/usr/bin/env -S node --loader ts-node/esm --disable-warning=ExperimentalWarning`. This allows Node.js to run your TypeScript code **without prior compilation** by using the `ts-node/esm` loader. This significantly speeds up development as you don't need to wait for compilation every time you make changes. The `development: true` flag is passed to `@oclif/core` to enable development-specific features.
  - **`dev.cmd`**: This is the Windows equivalent of `dev.js`, also used for running in development mode with `ts-node/esm`.

In summary, the `.cmd` files ensure compatibility with Windows, while the `run` and `dev` pairs provide distinct entry points for the "production-ready" (compiled) CLI version and the active development version (directly from TypeScript source files).
