docs/getting-started/deployment-guide/environment-variables.md, before:

# Environment Variables

This document describes how to configure environment variables for working with OWOX Data Marts. The system automatically loads configuration when starting the application with the `serve` command.

## Table of Contents

- [Core Principles](#core-principles)
- [Configuration Methods](#configuration-methods)
- [Environment Loading Priority](#environment-loading-priority)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Core Principles

OWOX Data Marts can receive environment variables in two ways:

- **From system environment** - variables set directly in the runtime environment
- **From configuration file** - variables loaded from a `.env` file

Depending on the selected database type for the backend (`DB_TYPE`) and identity provider (`IDP_PROVIDER`), you need to set the corresponding additional environment variables:

- **For `DB_TYPE=mysql`** - add MySQL connection variables (`DB_HOST`, `DB_PORT`, `DB_USERNAME`, `DB_PASSWORD`, `DB_DATABASE`)
- **For `IDP_PROVIDER=better-auth`** - add Better Auth variables (`IDP_BETTER_AUTH_SECRET`, `IDP_BETTER_AUTH_BASE_URL`, etc.)

The complete list of all available environment variables is located in the [.env.example](https://github.com/OWOX/owox-data-marts/blob/main/.env.example) file in the project root directory.

### Public URLs

- **PUBLIC_ORIGIN**: Base public URL of the application (scheme + host [+ optional port]).
  - Examples: `http://localhost:3000`, `https://data-marts.example.com`
  - Default: `http://localhost:${PORT}`
  - In production, set this to your actual deployment URL.

- **LOOKER_STUDIO_DESTINATION_ORIGIN**: Public origin used to generate the deployment URL for the Looker Studio Destination.
  - If empty, it falls back to `PUBLIC_ORIGIN`.
  - Example: `https://looker.example.com`

### MySQL SSL

`DB_MYSQL_SSL`, `IDP_BETTER_AUTH_MYSQL_SSL`, `IDP_OWOX_MYSQL_SSL`  enable TLS for MySQL (mysql2). Supported formats:

- Boolean-like (strings)
  - `true` → `{}` (enable TLS with default options: `rejectUnauthorized: true`)
  - `false` or empty → no `ssl` field (TLS disabled)

- JSON object (forwarded to mysql2 TLS options)
  - Strict CA verification:
    - `{"rejectUnauthorized": true}`
  - Custom CA bundle (inline PEM):
    - `{"rejectUnauthorized": true, "ca": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\\n...\\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\\n"}`
  - Mutual TLS (client cert + key):
    - `{"rejectUnauthorized": true, "cert": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\\n...\\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\\n", "key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\\n...\\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\\n"}`
  - Minimum TLS version (TLS 1.2):
    - `{"minVersion": "TLSv1.2", "rejectUnauthorized": true}`

See also: mysql2 official SSL documentation — <https://sidorares.github.io/node-mysql2/docs/documentation/ssl>

## Configuration Methods

You can configure environment variables using one of the following methods:

### Option A: Through Configuration File

By default, the `owox serve` command looks for a `.env` file in the current directory (where you run the command).

#### Creating Configuration File

Create and edit the `.env` file and set the values required for your configuration:

```bash
# Common variables
PORT=3030
LOG_FORMAT=pretty

# Database
DB_TYPE=sqlite
SQLITE_DB_PATH=./database/backend.db

# Identity provider
IDP_PROVIDER=none
```

#### Running the Application

Various ways to specify the path to the file:

```bash
# 1. If .env is in the current directory
owox serve

# 2. If .env is in another location - via flag
owox serve --env-file /path/to/.env
owox serve -e /path/to/.env
```

### Option B: Through Docker/Containers

When using containers, environment variables are passed from outside the container inside through the corresponding platform mechanisms (Docker, Kubernetes, etc.).

> **🐳 Containers**: Environment variables are set outside the container and passed inside during startup. Inside the container, the application sees them as regular environment variables.

### Option C: Through Hosting Platform

Most hosting platforms provide their own interface for setting environment variables. Usually it's an "Environment Variables" or "Config Vars" section in project settings.

### Option D: Through Command Line Arguments

Some environment variables can be configured directly through command line arguments. This option provides the highest priority for configuration:

```bash
# Using command line arguments (highest priority)
owox serve --port 3030 --log-format json

# Combined with environment file
owox serve --env-file .env.production --port 3030
```

> **⚠️ Limited scope**: Only a limited set of variables can be configured through command line arguments. Currently supported: `PORT` (via `--port`) and `LOG_FORMAT` (via `--log-format`). For other variables, use environment files or system environment variables.

### Option E: Through Environment Variables

Set environment variables directly before running the command:

```bash
# Linux/macOS/Windows (Git Bash)
DB_TYPE=sqlite SQLITE_DB_PATH=./database/backend.db IDP_PROVIDER=none owox serve

# Windows (Command Prompt)
set DB_TYPE=sqlite && set SQLITE_DB_PATH=./database/backend.db && set IDP_PROVIDER=none && owox serve

# Windows (PowerShell)
$env:DB_TYPE="sqlite"
$env:SQLITE_DB_PATH="./database/backend.db"
$env:IDP_PROVIDER="none"
owox serve
```

## Environment Loading Priority

This section describes the internal logic of the environment variable loading system. Understanding this order will help you configure the correct setup and diagnose problems.

The system loads environment variables in the following priority order (highest to lowest):

### 1. Command Line Arguments (Highest Priority)

Variables specified through command line arguments override all other sources:

```bash
owox serve --port 3030 --log-format json
```

> **⚠️ Note**: Only `--port` and `--log-format` are currently supported as command line arguments.

### 2. System Environment Variables

Variables set directly in the runtime environment (system environment variables or variables set through hosting platform interfaces).

### 3. Explicitly Specified Environment File

When you specify a path to a configuration file via `--env-file`:

```bash
owox serve --env-file /path/to/.env.production
```

### 4. Default .env File

If no environment file is explicitly specified, the system looks for a `.env` file in the current directory:

```bash
owox serve
```

### 5. Default Values (Lowest Priority)

If variables are not set through any of the above methods, the system uses default values:

```text
PORT=3000
LOG_FORMAT=pretty
```

### Priority Example

**Example demonstrating priority:**

```bash
# All these sources can provide PORT value:
# 1. Command line argument (highest priority): --port 3030
# 2. System environment: export PORT=3010
# 3. Explicitly specified file: PORT=3020 in custom.env
# 4. Default .env file: PORT=3000
# 5. Default value: PORT=3000 (lowest priority)

owox serve --env-file custom.env --port 3030
# Result: PORT=3030 (from command line argument)
```

## Troubleshooting

### Checking Variable Loading

The system outputs detailed messages about the loading process to help you understand what's happening during environment setup:

```bash
owox serve --env-file .env.production
```

Expected success messages:

- `📂 Using specified environment file: .env.production`
- `🔄 Starting to process environment file: .env.production`
- `✅ Set 5 variables`
- `✨ Environment file processed successfully`

Expected file path resolution messages:

- `📂 Using specified environment file: /path/to/.env.production` (when `--env-file` is specified)
- `⚙️ Using default environment file: /current/directory/.env` (default fallback)

Expected file processing messages:

- `🔄 Starting to process environment file: .env.production`
- `✅ Set 5 variables`
- `⏭️ Skipped 2 existing variables: PORT (already exists), LOG_FORMAT (already exists)`
- `🗑️ Ignored 1 invalid variables: EMPTY_VAR (empty string value)`
- `✨ Environment file processed successfully`

### Common Errors

#### File Not Found

```text
🔍 Environment file not found: /path/to/.env.production
```

**Solution**: Check the correctness of the file path and ensure the file exists.

#### File Reading Error

```text
📖 Failed to read file /path/to/.env: ENOENT: no such file or directory
```

**Solution**: Verify file permissions and path accessibility.

#### Parsing Error

```text
💥 Empty content or failed to parse environment file: /path/to/.env
```

**Solution**: Check the syntax of the `.env` file and ensure it's not empty. The file should contain valid `KEY=value` pairs.

#### Variables Not Loading

```text
🔍 Environment file not found: /current/directory/.env
🚫 Failed to process environment file
```

**Solution**:

1. Create a `.env` file in the root directory
2. Specify the correct path via `--env-file`
3. Set variables directly in the environment (without using a file):
   - Via environment variables: `PORT=3030 DB_TYPE=sqlite owox serve`
   - Via hosting platform environment variables interface
   - Via system environment variables

### Debug Tips

#### Common Variable Issues

When variables are ignored or skipped, the system provides specific reasons:

- `EMPTY_VAR (empty string value)` - Variable has no value after trimming
- `INVALID_KEY (invalid key)` - Key is empty or contains only whitespace
- `UNDEFINED_VAR (undefined/null value)` - Variable is undefined or null
- `PORT (already exists)` - Variable already exists and override is disabled

Commit message:

feat(idp-better-auth): minimize env variables

docs/getting-started/deployment-guide/environment-variables.md, after:

# Environment Variables

This document describes how to configure environment variables for working with OWOX Data Marts. The system automatically loads configuration when starting the application with the `serve` command.

## Table of Contents

- [Core Principles](#core-principles)
- [Configuration Methods](#configuration-methods)
- [Environment Loading Priority](#environment-loading-priority)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Core Principles

OWOX Data Marts can receive environment variables in two ways:

- **From system environment** - variables set directly in the runtime environment
- **From configuration file** - variables loaded from a `.env` file

Depending on the selected database type for the backend (`DB_TYPE`) and identity provider (`IDP_PROVIDER`), you need to set the corresponding additional environment variables:

- **For `DB_TYPE=mysql`** - add MySQL connection variables (`DB_HOST`, `DB_PORT`, `DB_USERNAME`, `DB_PASSWORD`, `DB_DATABASE`)
- **For `IDP_PROVIDER=better-auth`** - add variable `IDP_BETTER_AUTH_SECRET`. If you need a more flexible Better Auth configuration, see the documentation — <https://docs.owox.com/packages/idp-better-auth/readme/>

The complete list of all available environment variables is located in the [.env.example](https://github.com/OWOX/owox-data-marts/blob/main/.env.example) file in the project root directory.

### Public URLs

- **PUBLIC_ORIGIN**: Base public URL of the application (scheme + host [+ optional port]).
  - Examples: `http://localhost:3000`, `https://data-marts.example.com`
  - Default: `http://localhost:${PORT}`
  - In production, set this to your actual deployment URL.

- **LOOKER_STUDIO_DESTINATION_ORIGIN**: Public origin used to generate the deployment URL for the Looker Studio Destination.
  - If empty, it falls back to `PUBLIC_ORIGIN`.
  - Example: `https://looker.example.com`

### MySQL SSL

`DB_MYSQL_SSL`, `IDP_BETTER_AUTH_MYSQL_SSL`, `IDP_OWOX_MYSQL_SSL`  enable TLS for MySQL (mysql2). Supported formats:

- Boolean-like (strings)
  - `true` → `{}` (enable TLS with default options: `rejectUnauthorized: true`)
  - `false` or empty → no `ssl` field (TLS disabled)

- JSON object (forwarded to mysql2 TLS options)
  - Strict CA verification:
    - `{"rejectUnauthorized": true}`
  - Custom CA bundle (inline PEM):
    - `{"rejectUnauthorized": true, "ca": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\\n...\\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\\n"}`
  - Mutual TLS (client cert + key):
    - `{"rejectUnauthorized": true, "cert": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\\n...\\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\\n", "key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\\n...\\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\\n"}`
  - Minimum TLS version (TLS 1.2):
    - `{"minVersion": "TLSv1.2", "rejectUnauthorized": true}`

See also: mysql2 official SSL documentation — <https://sidorares.github.io/node-mysql2/docs/documentation/ssl>

## Configuration Methods

You can configure environment variables using one of the following methods:

### Option A: Through Configuration File

By default, the `owox serve` command looks for a `.env` file in the current directory (where you run the command).

#### Creating Configuration File

Create and edit the `.env` file and set the values required for your configuration:

```bash
# Common variables
PORT=3030
LOG_FORMAT=pretty

# Database
DB_TYPE=sqlite
SQLITE_DB_PATH=./database/backend.db

# Identity provider
IDP_PROVIDER=none
```

#### Running the Application

Various ways to specify the path to the file:

```bash
# 1. If .env is in the current directory
owox serve

# 2. If .env is in another location - via flag
owox serve --env-file /path/to/.env
owox serve -e /path/to/.env
```

### Option B: Through Docker/Containers

When using containers, environment variables are passed from outside the container inside through the corresponding platform mechanisms (Docker, Kubernetes, etc.).

> **🐳 Containers**: Environment variables are set outside the container and passed inside during startup. Inside the container, the application sees them as regular environment variables.

### Option C: Through Hosting Platform

Most hosting platforms provide their own interface for setting environment variables. Usually it's an "Environment Variables" or "Config Vars" section in project settings.

### Option D: Through Command Line Arguments

Some environment variables can be configured directly through command line arguments. This option provides the highest priority for configuration:

```bash
# Using command line arguments (highest priority)
owox serve --port 3030 --log-format json

# Combined with environment file
owox serve --env-file .env.production --port 3030
```

> **⚠️ Limited scope**: Only a limited set of variables can be configured through command line arguments. Currently supported: `PORT` (via `--port`) and `LOG_FORMAT` (via `--log-format`). For other variables, use environment files or system environment variables.

### Option E: Through Environment Variables

Set environment variables directly before running the command:

```bash
# Linux/macOS/Windows (Git Bash)
DB_TYPE=sqlite SQLITE_DB_PATH=./database/backend.db IDP_PROVIDER=none owox serve

# Windows (Command Prompt)
set DB_TYPE=sqlite && set SQLITE_DB_PATH=./database/backend.db && set IDP_PROVIDER=none && owox serve

# Windows (PowerShell)
$env:DB_TYPE="sqlite"
$env:SQLITE_DB_PATH="./database/backend.db"
$env:IDP_PROVIDER="none"
owox serve
```

## Environment Loading Priority

This section describes the internal logic of the environment variable loading system. Understanding this order will help you configure the correct setup and diagnose problems.

The system loads environment variables in the following priority order (highest to lowest):

### 1. Command Line Arguments (Highest Priority)

Variables specified through command line arguments override all other sources:

```bash
owox serve --port 3030 --log-format json
```

> **⚠️ Note**: Only `--port` and `--log-format` are currently supported as command line arguments.

### 2. System Environment Variables

Variables set directly in the runtime environment (system environment variables or variables set through hosting platform interfaces).

### 3. Explicitly Specified Environment File

When you specify a path to a configuration file via `--env-file`:

```bash
owox serve --env-file /path/to/.env.production
```

### 4. Default .env File

If no environment file is explicitly specified, the system looks for a `.env` file in the current directory:

```bash
owox serve
```

### 5. Default Values (Lowest Priority)

If variables are not set through any of the above methods, the system uses default values:

```text
PORT=3000
LOG_FORMAT=pretty
```

### Priority Example

**Example demonstrating priority:**

```bash
# All these sources can provide PORT value:
# 1. Command line argument (highest priority): --port 3030
# 2. System environment: export PORT=3010
# 3. Explicitly specified file: PORT=3020 in custom.env
# 4. Default .env file: PORT=3000
# 5. Default value: PORT=3000 (lowest priority)

owox serve --env-file custom.env --port 3030
# Result: PORT=3030 (from command line argument)
```

## Troubleshooting

### Checking Variable Loading

The system outputs detailed messages about the loading process to help you understand what's happening during environment setup:

```bash
owox serve --env-file .env.production
```

Expected success messages:

- `📂 Using specified environment file: .env.production`
- `🔄 Starting to process environment file: .env.production`
- `✅ Set 5 variables`
- `✨ Environment file processed successfully`

Expected file path resolution messages:

- `📂 Using specified environment file: /path/to/.env.production` (when `--env-file` is specified)
- `⚙️ Using default environment file: /current/directory/.env` (default fallback)

Expected file processing messages:

- `🔄 Starting to process environment file: .env.production`
- `✅ Set 5 variables`
- `⏭️ Skipped 2 existing variables: PORT (already exists), LOG_FORMAT (already exists)`
- `🗑️ Ignored 1 invalid variables: EMPTY_VAR (empty string value)`
- `✨ Environment file processed successfully`

### Common Errors

#### File Not Found

```text
🔍 Environment file not found: /path/to/.env.production
```

**Solution**: Check the correctness of the file path and ensure the file exists.

#### File Reading Error

```text
📖 Failed to read file /path/to/.env: ENOENT: no such file or directory
```

**Solution**: Verify file permissions and path accessibility.

#### Parsing Error

```text
💥 Empty content or failed to parse environment file: /path/to/.env
```

**Solution**: Check the syntax of the `.env` file and ensure it's not empty. The file should contain valid `KEY=value` pairs.

#### Variables Not Loading

```text
🔍 Environment file not found: /current/directory/.env
🚫 Failed to process environment file
```

**Solution**:

1. Create a `.env` file in the root directory
2. Specify the correct path via `--env-file`
3. Set variables directly in the environment (without using a file):
   - Via environment variables: `PORT=3030 DB_TYPE=sqlite owox serve`
   - Via hosting platform environment variables interface
   - Via system environment variables

### Debug Tips

#### Common Variable Issues

When variables are ignored or skipped, the system provides specific reasons:

- `EMPTY_VAR (empty string value)` - Variable has no value after trimming
- `INVALID_KEY (invalid key)` - Key is empty or contains only whitespace
- `UNDEFINED_VAR (undefined/null value)` - Variable is undefined or null
- `PORT (already exists)` - Variable already exists and override is disabled
