packages/connectors/src/Sources/LinkedInAds/CREDENTIALS.md, before:

# How to obtain the Access Token for Linkedin Ads Source

To connect to LinkedIn Ads through the API, you need to create an app, request access to the API, and generate an access token. Follow the steps below to complete the process.

## Step 1: Create a LinkedIn App

Visit the [LinkedIn Developer portal](https://developer.linkedin.com/ ).

Click the **Create App** button.

![LinkedIn creating app](res/linkedin_createapp.png)

Enter your **App Name** and paste the link to your company's LinkedIn page into the **LinkedIn Page** field.  

 ![LinkedIn app name](res/linkedin_appname.png)

Upload your app logo, check the box to accept the legal agreement, and click the **Create App** button.  

 ![LinkedIn app creating](res/linkedin_create.png)

## Step 2: Verify the App

Go to the **Settings** tab and click the **Verify** button. The administrator of your LinkedIn company page must then verify the app to grant it access to company data.  

 ![LinkedIn app verifying](res/linkedin_verify.png)

 ![LinkedIn verifying](res/linkedin_verify_process.png)

 Please, ensure that the app is verified:

 ![LinkedIn verified](res/linkedin_verified.png)

## Step 3: Request Access to the API

Once your app is verified, navigate to the **Products** tab in the LinkedIn Developer Portal and request access to the necessary APIs.

If you need access to **advertising data**: to retrieve campaign performance, audience insights, ad creatives, and other paid media metrics, request access to the **Advertising API**.

![LinkedIn app request](res/linkedin_request.png)

> ⏳ Approval may take up to **24 hours**. You will receive a confirmation email once your request is approved.

![LinkedIn request accepted](res/linkedin_accepted.png)

When access is granted, the **Advertising API** will appear under the **Added Products** section on the Products page.

![LinkedIn Adv API added](res/linkedin_addedapi.png)

## Step 4: Generate an Access Token

Navigate to the **Auth** tab of your LinkedIn app and click **OAuth 2.0 tools** on the right-hand side of the page.

![LinkedIn OAuth](res/linkedin_oauth.png)

Click the **Create token** button to begin the authorization process.

![LinkedIn Token](res/linkedin_createtoken.png)

---

If you see the following error message:  
_"There aren't any scopes available for this app. Select another app or visit your app's product settings to request API access,"_  
make sure you've requested and received approval for the necessary APIs in **Step 3**.

![LinkedIn Scopes Error](res/linkedin_error.png)

---

Select the required scopes for **advertising data** access:

- `r_ads`  
- `r_ads_reporting`

![LinkedIn Scopes](res/linkedin_scope.png)

After selecting the appropriate scopes, click **Request access token**.

![LinkedIn Request token](res/linkedin_requesttoken.png)

On the next screen, click **Allow** to authorize the app.

![LinkedIn Allow access](res/linkedin_allow.png)

## Step 5: Save the Access Token

After the token is generated, **copy and securely store your Access Token**.

> ⚠️ **Important:**  
> Make sure you are copying the **Access Token**, not the **Refresh Token**.  
> The **Access Token** is located at the **top** of the page.

![LinkedIn Copy token](res/linkedin_copytoken.png)

## ✅ You’re Ready to Go

You can now use this token as described in the [Getting Started guide](GETTING_STARTED.md) to connect to LinkedIn Ads or LinkedIn Pages data sources.

Commit message:

feat(LinkedInAds): update credentials and getting started documentation; add new images and improve clarity

packages/connectors/src/Sources/LinkedInAds/CREDENTIALS.md, after:

# How to obtain the Access Token for Linkedin Ads Source

To connect to LinkedIn Ads through the API, you need to create an app, request access to the API, and generate an access token. Follow the steps below to complete the process.

## Step 1: Create a LinkedIn App

Visit the [LinkedIn Developer portal](https://developer.linkedin.com/ ).

Click the **Create App** button.

![LinkedIn creating app](res/linkedin_createapp.png)

Enter your **App Name** and paste the link to your company's LinkedIn page into the **LinkedIn Page** field.  

 ![LinkedIn app name](res/linkedin_appname.png)

Upload your app logo, check the box to accept the legal agreement, and click the **Create App** button.  

 ![LinkedIn app creating](res/linkedin_create.png)

## Step 2: Verify the App

Go to the **Settings** tab and click the **Verify** button. Share the link with the administrator of your LinkedIn company page. The administrator must verify the app to grant it access to company data.

 ![LinkedIn app verifying](res/linkedin_verify.png)

 ![LinkedIn verifying](res/linkedin_verify_process.png)

 Please, ensure that the app is verified:

 ![LinkedIn verified](res/linkedin_verified.png)

## Step 3: Request Access to the API

Once your app is verified, navigate to the **Products** tab and request access to the necessary APIs.

If you need access to **advertising data**: to retrieve campaign performance, audience insights, ad creatives, and other paid media metrics, request access to the **Advertising API**.

![LinkedIn app request](res/linkedin_request.png)

> ⏳ Approval may take up to **24 hours**. You will receive a confirmation email once your request is approved.

![LinkedIn request accepted](res/linkedin_accepted.png)

When access is granted, the **Advertising API** will appear under the **Added Products** section on the Products page.

![LinkedIn Adv API added](res/linkedin_addedapi.png)

## Step 4: Generate a Refresh Token

Navigate to the **Auth** tab of your LinkedIn app.

Copy the Client ID and Client Secret, you will need it later.

![LinkedIn Ads Credentials](res/linkedin_clientsecret.png)

Click **OAuth 2.0 tools** on the right-hand side of the page.

![LinkedIn OAuth](res/linkedin_oauth.png)

Click the **Create token** button to begin the authorization process.

![LinkedIn Token](res/linkedin_createtoken.png)

---

If you see the following error message:  
_"There aren't any scopes available for this app. Select another app or visit your app's product settings to request API access,"_  
make sure you've requested and received approval for the necessary APIs in **Step 3**.

![LinkedIn Scopes Error](res/linkedin_error.png)

---

Select the required scopes for **advertising data** access:

- `r_ads`  
- `r_ads_reporting`

![LinkedIn Scopes](res/linkedin_scope.png)

After selecting the appropriate scopes, click **Request access token**.

![LinkedIn Request token](res/linkedin_requesttoken.png)

On the next screen, click **Allow** to authorize the app.

![LinkedIn Allow access](res/linkedin_allow.png)

## Step 5: Save the Refresh Token

After the token is generated, **copy and securely store your Refresh Token**.

> ⚠️ **Important:**  
> Make sure you are copying the **Refresh Token**, not the **Access Token**.  
> The **Refresh Token** is located at the **bottom** of the page.

![LinkedIn Copy token](res/linkedin_copytoken.png)

## ✅ You’re Ready to Go

You can now use this token as described in the [Getting Started guide](GETTING_STARTED.md) to connect to LinkedIn Ads data source.

If you encounter any issues:

1. Please [visit Q&A](https://github.com/OWOX/owox-data-marts/discussions/categories/q-a) first
2. If you want to report a bug, please [open an issue](https://github.com/OWOX/owox-data-marts/issues)
3. Join the [discussion forum](https://github.com/OWOX/owox-data-marts/discussions) to ask questions or propose improvements
