packages/connectors/src/Sources/LinkedIn/GETTING_STARTED.md, before:

To receive data from the LinkedIn Ads source, please make a copy of the file
["LinkedIn Ads → Google Sheets. Template"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-eo1z9h5qKGfNDVmSoVYgyEkWfRWRy07NaU5hZnM4Vk/copy) or
["LinkedIn Ads → Google BigQuery. Template"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hHrS8FejfACt1lbOQCfY72YldjjMRP8Ft1aOxqqXYsA/copy).

To receive data from the LinkedIn Pages source, please make a copy of the file
["LinkedIn Pages → Google Sheets. Template"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KgLiUiPfswvl-ZGRJnu937mKgRiYPJlbNxpmkzXo4-Q/copy) or
["LinkedIn Pages → Google BigQuery. Template"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1lFqSkdHjO2jTlHoi8QtmJNMCZK1YSaMKaSYmDI7LMKQ/copy)

Fill in required information:
- **Start Date**
- **Account URNs**
- **Organization URNs**
- **Fields**

The import will begin from the selected **Start Date**.  
> ⚠️ Note: Choosing a long date range may cause the import to fail due to high data volume.

![LinkedIn Start Date](res/linkedin_date.png)

You can find your **Account URN** on the homepage of your LinkedIn Ads account:

![LinkedIn Account URN](res/linkedin_account.png)

Copy and paste the URN into the appropriate field in the spreadsheet:

![Account URN](res/linkedin_pasteurn.png)

To obtain **Organization URN**, go to [LinkedIn Campaign Manager](https://www.linkedin.com/campaignmanager).

Select your ad account > Assets > Company Page.

The URL may show something like:

https://www.linkedin.com/company/123456/admin/

Here, `123456` is the Organization URN.

To include fields, go to the **Fields** tab and check the boxes next to the fields you want to include.

![LinkedIn Fields](res/linkedin_fields.png)

Go to the menu: **OWOX → Manage Credentials**

![LinkedIn Credentials](res/linkedin_credentials.png)

Enter your Access Token obtained by following this tutorial: [**How to obtain the credentials for the LinkedIn Ads / LinkedIn Pages connector**](CREDENTIALS.md).

![LinkedIn Token](res/linkedin_token.png)

Click **OK**. Once your credentials are saved, click: **OWOX → Import New Data**

![LinkedIn Import Data](res/linkedin_import.png)

The process is complete when the **Log** sheet shows the message:  
**"Import is finished"**  
Your data will appear in new tabs, named after the corresponding data types (e.g., *adAccount*, *adCampaignGroups*).

![LinkedIn Finished](res/linkedin_success.png)

Commit message:

Update documentation across various connectors to enhance clarity and consistency
- Added introductory headers and improved formatting in Facebook Marketing, GitHub, LinkedIn, Open Exchange Rates, Open Holidays, Reddit Ads, TikTok Ads, and X Ads documentation.
- Corrected numbering and formatting issues in LinkedIn and Reddit Ads credential guides.
- Enhanced instructions for obtaining access tokens and importing data in TikTok Ads and X Ads documentation.
- Updated output table structure and added missing details in GitHub documentation.
- Improved clarity in credential acquisition steps for Open Exchange Rates and other connectors.
- Ensured consistent license information formatting across all connector README files.

packages/connectors/src/Sources/LinkedIn/GETTING_STARTED.md, after:

# How to Import Data from the Linkedin Ads & Linkedin Pages Source

To receive data from the LinkedIn Ads source, please make a copy of the file
["LinkedIn Ads → Google Sheets. Template"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-eo1z9h5qKGfNDVmSoVYgyEkWfRWRy07NaU5hZnM4Vk/copy) or
["LinkedIn Ads → Google BigQuery. Template"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hHrS8FejfACt1lbOQCfY72YldjjMRP8Ft1aOxqqXYsA/copy).

To receive data from the LinkedIn Pages source, please make a copy of the file
["LinkedIn Pages → Google Sheets. Template"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KgLiUiPfswvl-ZGRJnu937mKgRiYPJlbNxpmkzXo4-Q/copy) or
["LinkedIn Pages → Google BigQuery. Template"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1lFqSkdHjO2jTlHoi8QtmJNMCZK1YSaMKaSYmDI7LMKQ/copy)

Fill in required information:

- **Start Date**
- **Account URNs**
- **Organization URNs**
- **Fields**

The import will begin from the selected **Start Date**.  
> ⚠️ Note: Choosing a long date range may cause the import to fail due to high data volume.

![LinkedIn Start Date](res/linkedin_date.png)

You can find your **Account URN** on the homepage of your LinkedIn Ads account:

![LinkedIn Account URN](res/linkedin_account.png)

Copy and paste the URN into the appropriate field in the spreadsheet:

![Account URN](res/linkedin_pasteurn.png)

To obtain **Organization URN**, go to [LinkedIn Campaign Manager](https://www.linkedin.com/campaignmanager).

Select your ad account > Assets > Company Page.

The URL may show something like:

<https://www.linkedin.com/company/123456/admin/>

Here, `123456` is the Organization URN.

To include fields, go to the **Fields** tab and check the boxes next to the fields you want to include.

![LinkedIn Fields](res/linkedin_fields.png)

Go to the menu: **OWOX → Manage Credentials**

![LinkedIn Credentials](res/linkedin_credentials.png)

Enter your Access Token obtained by following this tutorial: [**How to obtain the credentials for the LinkedIn Ads / LinkedIn Pages connector**](CREDENTIALS.md).

![LinkedIn Token](res/linkedin_token.png)

Click **OK**. Once your credentials are saved, click: **OWOX → Import New Data**

![LinkedIn Import Data](res/linkedin_import.png)

The process is complete when the **Log** sheet shows the message:  
**"Import is finished"**  
Your data will appear in new tabs, named after the corresponding data types (e.g., *adAccount*, *adCampaignGroups*).

![LinkedIn Finished](res/linkedin_success.png)
