docs/destinations/supported-destinations/looker-studio.md, before:

# Looker Studio

Looker Studio is a powerful data visualization tool that allows users to create interactive dashboards and reports.  
Integration with Looker Studio as a **Destination** for OWOX Data Marts  enables seamless data access and visualization.

---

<https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95e499eb-0a36-4180-846b-a829294e1afe>

## Step 1. Create a Destination entity

- In the OWOX Data Marts web application, navigate to **Destinations** from the main navigation pane and click **+ New Destination**.
- Select **Looker Studio** from the **Destination Type** dropdown.
- Provide a **Title** — a unique name for this Destination (e.g., "Looker Studio Access (Marketing Team)").
- Enter the **Deployment URL** that Looker Studio will use to initiate the connection to OWOX Data Marts:
  - Use a secure URL (HTTPS is recommended) to protect data in transit. Example: `https://owox-data-marts.yourdomain.com`.
  - Ensure your OWOX Data Marts server is deployed with a publicly accessible endpoint (e.g., via a domain or load balancer).
    - If you use additional authorization to access your OWOX Data Marts server, make sure URLs with the pattern `/api/external/looker/*` are accessible over the internet and point to your OWOX Data Marts instance.
- Copy the **JSON Config** to your clipboard and click **Save**.
- Click **Save**.

![Create Data Mart-1](../../res/screens/create-destination-entity-looker-studio.png)

---

## Step 2. Make a Data Mart accessible for Looker Studio

- Open the **Data Mart** you want to make accessible in Looker Studio and go to the **Destinations** tab.
- In corresponding Looker Studio Destination, **enable** toggle with a single click to make the current Data Mart available for Looker Studio.
- If needed, click on on the row in Destination section to adjust default **Cache Lifetime** based on how you want to control data freshness when Looker Studio requests this data:
  - This setting defines the period during which results from previous query executions are served from the storage-side cache, eliminating the need to re-execute the query.

![Create Data Mart-1](../../res/screens/create-report-to-looker-studio-in-data-mart.png)

---

## Step 3. Add a Data Source in Looker Studio

- Find the [OWOX Data Marts connector](https://datastudio.google.com/datasources/create?connectorId=AKfycbz6kcYn3qGuG0jVNFjcDnkXvVDiz4hewKdAFjOm-_d4VkKVcBidPjqZO991AvGL3FtM4A) in Looker Studio's Gallery.
- **Authorize** with your Google Account (Looker Studio requires authorization to connect to data).
- Provide a **Configuration Display Name** — a unique name to help you distinguish different connections (e.g., "Looker Studio Access (Marketing)").
- Paste the value from your clipboard into the **JSON Config** field and click **Next**.
- Select the **Connection Configuration** you created previously and click **Next**.
- Select a **Data Mart** and click **Connect**.
- Make sure all the required fields are connected this Looker Studio's data source and click **Create Report** or **Explore**.
  - You can control the name and description of fields shown in Looker Studio via the **Output Schema** of the Data Mart in your OWOX Data Marts web application.

Connector in Looker Studio (first step):

![Create Data Mart-1](../../res/screens/connector-in-looker-studio-1st-step.png)

Connector in Looker Studio (second step):

![Create Data Mart-1](../../res/screens/connector-in-looker-studio-2nd-step.png)

---

For additional guidance or troubleshooting, refer to the [OWOX Community](https://github.com/OWOX/owox-data-marts/discussions)

Commit message:

chore(docs): updated Looker Studio page (#874)
* chore(docs): updated Looker Studio page

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Obolrus <89208270+Obolrus@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Obolrus <89208270+Obolrus@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/destinations/supported-destinations/looker-studio.md, after:

# Looker Studio

Looker Studio is a powerful data visualization tool that allows users to create interactive dashboards and reports.  
Integration with Looker Studio as a **Destination** for OWOX Data Marts  enables seamless data access and visualization.

---

<https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95e499eb-0a36-4180-846b-a829294e1afe>

## Step 1. Create a Destination entity

- In the OWOX Data Marts web application, navigate to **Destinations** from the main navigation pane and click **+ New Destination**.
- Select **Looker Studio** from the **Destination Type** dropdown.
- Provide a **Title** — a unique name for this Destination (e.g., "Looker Studio Access (Marketing Team)").
- Enter the **Deployment URL** that Looker Studio will use to initiate the connection to OWOX Data Marts:
  - Use a secure URL (HTTPS is recommended) to protect data in transit. Example: `https://owox-data-marts.yourdomain.com`.
  - Ensure your OWOX Data Marts server is deployed with a publicly accessible endpoint (e.g., via a domain or load balancer).
    - If you use additional authorization to access your OWOX Data Marts server, make sure URLs with the pattern `/api/external/looker/*` are accessible over the internet and point to your OWOX Data Marts instance.
- Copy the **JSON Config** to your clipboard and click **Save**.
- Click **Save**.

![Create Data Mart-1](../../res/screens/create-destination-entity-looker-studio.png)

---

## Step 2. Make a Data Mart accessible for Looker Studio

- Open the **Data Mart** you want to make accessible in Looker Studio and go to the **Destinations** tab.
- In corresponding Looker Studio Destination, **enable** toggle with a single click to make the current Data Mart available for Looker Studio.
- If needed, click on on the row in Destination section to adjust default **Cache Lifetime** based on how you want to control data freshness when Looker Studio requests this data:
  - This setting defines the period during which results from previous query executions are served from the storage-side cache, eliminating the need to re-execute the query.

![Create Data Mart-1](../../res/screens/create-report-to-looker-studio-in-data-mart.png)

---

## Step 3. Add a Data Source in Looker Studio

- Find the [OWOX Data Marts connector](https://datastudio.google.com/datasources/create?connectorId=AKfycbz6kcYn3qGuG0jVNFjcDnkXvVDiz4hewKdAFjOm-_d4VkKVcBidPjqZO991AvGL3FtM4A) in Looker Studio's Gallery.
- **Authorize** with your Google Account (Looker Studio requires authorization to connect to data).
- Provide a **Configuration Display Name** — a unique name to help you distinguish different connections (e.g., "Looker Studio Access (Marketing)").
- Paste the value from your clipboard into the **JSON Config** field and click **Next**.
- Select the **Connection Configuration** you created previously and click **Next**.
- Select a **Data Mart** and click **Connect**.
- Make sure all the required fields are connected this Looker Studio's data source and click **Create Report** or **Explore**.
  - You can control the name and description of fields shown in Looker Studio via the **Output Schema** of the Data Mart in your OWOX Data Marts web application.

> **⚠️ Note**: Data from Data Marts is delivered to Looker Studio via streaming, so each `getData()` call must stay within Looker Studio’s limit of **1,000,000 rows** or 50 MB of data. Refer to the [official documentation](https://developers.google.com/looker-studio/connector/reference#getdata) for more details. If you encounter issues or slow performance, try reducing the number of rows you request to stay under the limit.

Connector in Looker Studio (first step):

![Create Data Mart-1](../../res/screens/connector-in-looker-studio-1st-step.png)

Connector in Looker Studio (second step):

![Create Data Mart-1](../../res/screens/connector-in-looker-studio-2nd-step.png)

---

For additional guidance or troubleshooting, refer to the [OWOX Community](https://github.com/OWOX/owox-data-marts/discussions)
