docs/destinations/manage-destinations.md, before:

# Destination Management

**Destination** is an interface or application used by business users to access the data.  
Supported destinations include Google Sheets, Looker Studio, and OData-compatible tools like Excel, Tableau, and Power BI.  
Each **Data Mart** can be linked to multiple **Destinations**, allowing data to be consumed in various ways.
![Destinations](../res/screens/destinations-table.png)

---

## Adding a New Destination

To configure a new **Destination**:

1. On the **Destinations** page, click **+ New Destination**.
2. Choose a storage type option on the **Destination Type** dropdown list:
    - [Google Sheets](supported-destinations/google-spreadsheets.md)
    - [Looker Studio](supported-destinations/looker-studio.md)
    - OData (Coming soon)

3. Complete the configuration fields specific to the selected **Destination Type**. Refer to the corresponding service configuration page for detailed instructions.
4. Click **Save** to apply the **Destination** configuration or **Cancel** to discard changes.

---

## Removing a Destination

To remove an existing **Destination** configuration:

1. Ensure all associated **Reports** referencing this **Destination** are deleted first:
   - Navigate to the **Data Marts** page and identify any Data Mart **Reports** using the **Destination**.
   - Delete each associated **Report** individually.
2. Go to the **Destinations** page via the main navigation pane.
3. Locate the **Destination** you want to delete in the table, click the item actions menu (represented by **...**), and click **Delete**.
4. Confirm the deletion to remove the **Destination**.

> ☝️ Attempting to delete a **Destination** with associated **Reports** will result in the error: "Cannot delete the destination because it is referenced by N existing report(s)".  
> Ensure all dependencies are removed before proceeding.

---

## Key Considerations

- Each **Report** requires a single **Destination** association.
- For additional guidance or troubleshooting, explore the supported **Destination** configuration pages or join the [OWOX Community](https://github.com/OWOX/owox-data-marts/discussions).

Commit message:

chore(docs): Update destination descriptions and links in various components

docs/destinations/manage-destinations.md, after:

# Destination Management

**Destination** is an interface or application used by business users to access the data.  
Supported destinations include **Google Sheets**, **Looker Studio**, **Email**, **Slack**, **Microsoft Teams**, and **Google Chat**. In the near future, we will add support for OData-compatible tools like Excel, Tableau, and Power BI. 

### List of Destinations
![Destinations](../res/screens/destinations-table.png)

> ☝️ **Email**, **Slack**, **Microsoft Teams**, and **Google Chat** Destinations available in the **Team plan** for [OWOX Cloud Editions](../editions/owox-cloud-editions.md), and in the **Enterprise plan** for the [Self-Managed Editions](../editions/self-managed-editions.md).

### Created Destinations on the Data Mart page

Each **Data Mart** can be linked to multiple **Destinations**, allowing the data to be used in different ways.
![Destinations](../res/screens/destinations-tab-in-data-mart-page.png)

---

## Adding a New Destination

To configure a new **Destination**:

1. On the **Destinations** page, click **+ New Destination**.
2. Choose a storage type option on the **Destination Type** dropdown list:
    - [Google Sheets](supported-destinations/google-spreadsheets.md)
    - [Looker Studio](supported-destinations/looker-studio.md)
    - [Email](supported-destinations/email.md)
    - [Slack](supported-destinations/slack.md)
    - [Microsoft Teams](supported-destinations/microsoft-teams.md)
    - [Google Chat](supported-destinations/google-chat.md)
    - OData (Coming soon)

3. Complete the configuration fields specific to the selected **Destination Type**. Refer to the corresponding service configuration page for detailed instructions.
4. Click **Save** to apply the **Destination** configuration or **Cancel** to discard changes.

---

## Removing a Destination

To remove an existing **Destination** configuration:

1. Ensure all associated **Reports** referencing this **Destination** are deleted first:
   - Navigate to the **Data Marts** page and identify any Data Mart **Reports** using the **Destination**.
   - Delete each associated **Report** individually.
2. Go to the **Destinations** page via the main navigation panel.
3. Locate the **Destination** you want to delete in the table, click the item actions menu (represented by **...**), and click **Delete**.
4. Confirm the deletion to remove the **Destination**.

> ☝️ Attempting to delete a **Destination** with associated **Reports** will result in the error: "Cannot delete the destination because it is referenced by N existing report(s)".  
> Ensure all dependencies are removed before proceeding.

---

## Key Considerations

- Each **Report** requires a single **Destination** association.
- For additional guidance or troubleshooting, explore the supported **Destination** configuration pages or join the [OWOX Community](https://github.com/OWOX/owox-data-marts/discussions).
