docs/storages/supported-storages/aws-redshift.md, before:

# AWS Redshift

## 1. Go to the Storages Page

In the OWOX Data Marts web application, navigate to **Storages** from the main navigation pane and click **+ New Storage**.

## 2. Choose Storage Type

Click **AWS Redshift** to create a new **Storage** configuration.
> Upon selecting the **+ New Storage** button and specifying the desired storage type, a Storage entry is created.
> You can create **Data Mart** entities and model a data structure for your project prior to configuring the **Storage**.
> Note that **Data Mart** cannot be validated or published until the associated **Storage** is fully configured.

![OWOX Data Marts interface showing the Storages menu option highlighted with a red arrow in the left sidebar, and the New Storage dialog displaying available storage types including Google BigQuery, AWS Athena, Snowflake, AWS Redshift, and Databricks, with AWS Redshift circled in red and a New Storage button indicated by a red arrow in the top right](../../res/screens/redshift_storage.png)

## 3. Add title and AWS region

Give the storage configuration a clear **title**, eg `AWS Redshift Dev Database`.

Choose the AWS region where your Redshift cluster or workgroup is located:

- Examples: `us-east-1`, `eu-west-1`, `ap-southeast-1`
- You can find your region in the [AWS Redshift Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshiftv2/home) in the top right corner or url.

![AWS Redshift Serverless dashboard showing the region selector dropdown menu open in the top right corner. The dropdown displays available regions organized by geographic location including Europe (Stockholm, Frankfurt, Ireland, London, Paris), Asia Pacific (Sydney, Tokyo, ap-southeast-2, ap-northeast-1), Canada (Central, ca-central-1), and South America (São Paulo, sa-east-1) with Europe (Stockholm) currently selected and highlighted with a red circle and arrow indicating the region selection location.](../../res/screens/redshift_region.png)

![OWOX Data Marts Configure Storage Provider dialog showing General and Connection Settings sections. The General section contains fields for Title (AWS Redshift Dev Database) and Storage Type (AWS Redshift). The Connection Settings section displays a Region field with eu-north-1 entered. Red arrows point to the Title field and Region field. The dialog includes an info link asking What is AWS Redshift and What is the AWS region. A blue Save button and Cancel button are visible at the bottom of the dialog against a dark background.](../../res/screens/redshift_configure.png)

### Choose Connection Type

AWS Redshift supports two deployment types (one is required). It's based on your use case and pricing model.

#### Option 1: Serverless

**Workgroup Name:**

- Go to [AWS Redshift Serverless Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshiftv2/home#serverless-dashboard)
- Navigate to **Workgroup configuration**
- Copy the workgroup name (e.g., `default` or `my-workgroup`)

![AWS Redshift Serverless console showing the Workgroup configuration page. The left sidebar displays menu options including Serverless dashboard, Query editor v2, Amazon SageMaker Unified Studio, and Workgroup configuration highlighted with a red arrow. The main content area shows a Workgroups table with one workgroup named owox circled in red, displaying its status as Available and creation date in December. The interface includes a Create workgroup button and search functionality for finding workgroups.](../../res/screens/redshift_workgroup.png)

#### Option 2: Provisioned

**Cluster Identifier:**

- Go to [AWS Redshift Provisioned Clusters](https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshiftv2/home#clusters)
- Find your cluster in the list
- Copy the **Cluster identifier** (e.g., `redshift-cluster-1`)

![AWS Redshift Provisioned Clusters console displaying the clusters list page. The interface shows a Clusters (1) section with a table containing one cluster entry. The cluster named redshift-cluster-1 is circled in red and highlighted, showing details including its status as Available, cluster namespace, and region eu-north-1. The top navigation shows Amazon Redshift > Clusters with In my account and From other accounts tabs. Action buttons including Create cluster, Query data, and Actions are visible in the top right. A search field labeled Find clusters is present for filtering clusters.](../../res/screens/redshift_cluster.png)

### Enter Database Name

- This is the name of the database within your Redshift cluster
- Default Redshift database is typically `dev` or `defaultdb`
- You can find this in the [AWS Redshift Query Editor](https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshiftv2/home)

![AWS Redshift Query Editor v2 interface displaying the database selection panel on the left sidebar. The panel shows a hierarchical structure with Serverless: owox and redshift-cluster-1 deployments, followed by a native databases section containing the dev database highlighted in blue and sample_data_dev database below it. External databases section is collapsed at the bottom. The main editor area on the right shows an empty query window with Run, Limit 100, Explain, and Isolated session options visible.](../../res/screens/redshift_database.png)

### Authentication

OWOX Data Marts uses AWS IAM credentials to authenticate with Redshift Data API.

#### Access Key ID

Your AWS Access Key ID for authentication.

**How to create IAM credentials:**

1. Go to [AWS IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/)
2. Navigate to **Users** → Select your user or create a new one
3. Go to **Security credentials** tab
4. Click **Create access key**
5. Choose **Application running outside AWS**
6. Copy the **Access key ID**

#### Secret Access Key

Your AWS Secret Access Key (shown only once during creation).

> **Security Best Practice:**
>
> - Never share your secret access key
> - Store it securely (use AWS Secrets Manager or similar)
> - Rotate keys regularly
> - Use IAM policies to grant minimum required permissions

### Required IAM Permissions

Your IAM user or role needs the following permissions:

**For Serverless:**

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "redshift-data:ExecuteStatement",
        "redshift-data:DescribeStatement",
        "redshift-data:GetStatementResult",
        "redshift-serverless:GetCredentials"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

**For Provisioned Cluster:**

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "redshift-data:ExecuteStatement",
        "redshift-data:DescribeStatement",
        "redshift-data:GetStatementResult",
        "redshift:GetClusterCredentials"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

> **Tip:** You can attach the AWS managed policy `AmazonRedshiftDataFullAccess` for quick setup, but consider using a custom policy with minimal permissions for production.
> You can set permissions to certain database and tables for more security. Example: `"Resource": "arn:aws:redshift:us-east-1:123456789012"`

## 5. Finalize Setup

Review your entries and click **Save** to add the **Storage configuration**, or **Cancel** to exit without saving.

Once saved, OWOX Data Marts will validate the connection to ensure all credentials are correct.

## Grand Permissions to create schemas in database

If you want to create schemas in database (upload data from connector based data mart), you need to grant permissions to the user who will be used to upload data.

```sql
GRANT CREATE ON DATABASE dev TO "IAM:<USERNAME_IN_IAM>";
```

> **Tip:** You can find your username in IAM in the [AWS IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/) in the **Users** tab.

## Next Steps

After configuring your AWS Redshift storage:

1. **Create a Data Mart** that uses this storage
2. **Define your data structure** with Redshift-specific field types
3. **Configure a Connector** to load data into Redshift
4. **Run reports** and export data from your Redshift tables

## Understanding Schema Configuration

Unlike other storage types, **Schema** is configured at the **Connector level**, not at the Storage level.

When you create a connector:

- **Step 5: Target Setup** will ask for:
  - **Schema name** (required) - e.g., `public`, `analytics`, `my_schema`
  - **Table name** (required) - e.g., `user_events`, `sales_data`

The schema and table will be automatically created during the first Data Mart run if they don't exist.

## Troubleshooting

### Connection Failed

- Verify your AWS region is correct
- Ensure the database name exists in your Redshift cluster/workgroup
- Check that workgroup name or cluster identifier is spelled correctly
- Verify your Access Key ID and Secret Access Key are correct

### Permission Denied

Make sure your IAM user has the required permissions listed above. You can test permissions by running:

```bash
aws redshift-data execute-statement \
  --region us-east-1 \
  --database dev \
  --workgroup-name my-workgroup \
  --sql "SELECT 1"
```

### "Schema does not exist" Error

- Schema is now configured in the **Connector setup** (Step 5), not in Storage
- Make sure you've entered a schema name when creating the connector
- The schema will be automatically created if it doesn't exist

### Query Timeout

- Redshift Data API has a 5-minute query timeout
- For large data loads, consider breaking them into smaller batches
- Check your warehouse/cluster size and scaling settings

### Access Denied to Database

Ensure your Redshift database allows access from the IAM credentials:

**For Serverless:**

```sql
GRANT ALL ON DATABASE dev TO "IAM:<USERNAME_IN_IAM>";
```

**For Provisioned:**

```sql
GRANT ALL ON DATABASE dev TO "IAM:<USERNAME_IN_IAM>";
```

## Additional Resources

- [AWS Redshift Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/)
- [Redshift Data API Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/data-api.html)
- [IAM Permissions for Redshift](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/redshift-iam-access-control-overview.html)
- [Redshift Serverless Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/serverless-whatis.html)

Commit message:

fix(docs): add AWS Redshift IAM access key creation screenshots for clarity

docs/storages/supported-storages/aws-redshift.md, after:

# AWS Redshift

## 1. Go to the Storages Page

In the OWOX Data Marts web application, navigate to **Storages** from the main navigation pane and click **+ New Storage**.

## 2. Choose Storage Type

Click **AWS Redshift** to create a new **Storage** configuration.
> Upon selecting the **+ New Storage** button and specifying the desired storage type, a Storage entry is created.
> You can create **Data Mart** entities and model a data structure for your project prior to configuring the **Storage**.
> Note that **Data Mart** cannot be validated or published until the associated **Storage** is fully configured.

![OWOX Data Marts interface showing the Storages menu option highlighted with a red arrow in the left sidebar, and the New Storage dialog displaying available storage types including Google BigQuery, AWS Athena, Snowflake, AWS Redshift, and Databricks, with AWS Redshift circled in red and a New Storage button indicated by a red arrow in the top right](../../res/screens/redshift_storage.png)

## 3. Add title and AWS region

Give the storage configuration a clear **title**, eg `AWS Redshift Dev Database`.

Choose the AWS region where your Redshift cluster or workgroup is located:

- Examples: `us-east-1`, `eu-west-1`, `ap-southeast-1`
- You can find your region in the [AWS Redshift Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshiftv2/home) in the top right corner or url.

![AWS Redshift Serverless dashboard showing the region selector dropdown menu open in the top right corner. The dropdown displays available regions organized by geographic location including Europe (Stockholm, Frankfurt, Ireland, London, Paris), Asia Pacific (Sydney, Tokyo, ap-southeast-2, ap-northeast-1), Canada (Central, ca-central-1), and South America (São Paulo, sa-east-1) with Europe (Stockholm) currently selected and highlighted with a red circle and arrow indicating the region selection location.](../../res/screens/redshift_region.png)

![OWOX Data Marts Configure Storage Provider dialog showing General and Connection Settings sections. The General section contains fields for Title (AWS Redshift Dev Database) and Storage Type (AWS Redshift). The Connection Settings section displays a Region field with eu-north-1 entered. Red arrows point to the Title field and Region field. The dialog includes an info link asking What is AWS Redshift and What is the AWS region. A blue Save button and Cancel button are visible at the bottom of the dialog against a dark background.](../../res/screens/redshift_configure.png)

### Choose Connection Type

AWS Redshift supports two deployment types (one is required). It's based on your use case and pricing model.

#### Option 1: Serverless

**Workgroup Name:**

- Go to [AWS Redshift Serverless Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshiftv2/home#serverless-dashboard)
- Navigate to **Workgroup configuration**
- Copy the workgroup name (e.g., `default` or `my-workgroup`)

![AWS Redshift Serverless console showing the Workgroup configuration page. The left sidebar displays menu options including Serverless dashboard, Query editor v2, Amazon SageMaker Unified Studio, and Workgroup configuration highlighted with a red arrow. The main content area shows a Workgroups table with one workgroup named owox circled in red, displaying its status as Available and creation date in December. The interface includes a Create workgroup button and search functionality for finding workgroups.](../../res/screens/redshift_workgroup.png)

#### Option 2: Provisioned

**Cluster Identifier:**

- Go to [AWS Redshift Provisioned Clusters](https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshiftv2/home#clusters)
- Find your cluster in the list
- Copy the **Cluster identifier** (e.g., `redshift-cluster-1`)

![AWS Redshift Provisioned Clusters console displaying the clusters list page. The interface shows a Clusters (1) section with a table containing one cluster entry. The cluster named redshift-cluster-1 is circled in red and highlighted, showing details including its status as Available, cluster namespace, and region eu-north-1. The top navigation shows Amazon Redshift > Clusters with In my account and From other accounts tabs. Action buttons including Create cluster, Query data, and Actions are visible in the top right. A search field labeled Find clusters is present for filtering clusters.](../../res/screens/redshift_cluster.png)

### Enter Database Name

- This is the name of the database within your Redshift cluster
- Default Redshift database is typically `dev` or `defaultdb`
- You can find this in the [AWS Redshift Query Editor](https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshiftv2/home)

![AWS Redshift Query Editor v2 interface displaying the database selection panel on the left sidebar. The panel shows a hierarchical structure with Serverless: owox and redshift-cluster-1 deployments, followed by a native databases section containing the dev database highlighted in blue and sample_data_dev database below it. External databases section is collapsed at the bottom. The main editor area on the right shows an empty query window with Run, Limit 100, Explain, and Isolated session options visible.](../../res/screens/redshift_database.png)

### Authentication

OWOX Data Marts uses AWS IAM credentials to authenticate with Redshift Data API.

#### Access Key ID and Secret Access Key

**How to create IAM credentials:**

1. Go to [AWS IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/)
2. Navigate to **Users** → Select your user or create a new one
3. Click **Create access key**
4. Choose **Application running outside AWS**
5. Copy the **Access key** and **Secret access key** or download .csv file with access keys.

> **Security Best Practice:**
>
> - Never share your secret access key
> - Store it securely (use AWS Secrets Manager or similar)
> - Rotate keys regularly
> - Use IAM policies to grant minimum required permissions

![AWS IAM console showing the owox-user identity summary with ARN, creation date, and console access status. The Security credentials tab is open displaying the Console sign-in section. On the right side, under Access key 1, a blue Create access key link is visible with a red arrow indicating the location to click for generating new credentials. The interface shows a professional AWS management console layout with navigation menu on the left.](../../res/screens/redshift_createkey.png)

![AWS Create Access Key dialog showing Step 1: Access key best practices and alternatives. The page explains to avoid long-term credentials and presents use case options including Command Line Interface, Local code, Application running on AWS compute service, Third-party service, and Application running outside AWS, which is selected with a blue highlight and red arrow. The interface has a professional layout with step navigation on the left side and informational content on the right.](../../res/screens/redshift_creatingkeyoption.png)

![AWS IAM Access keys retrieval page displaying the newly created access key credentials, showing the Access Key ID and Secret Access Key fields with copy icons. The page indicates this is Step 3 of the access key creation process with options to view, download, or manage the credentials in a secure manner.](../../res/screens/redshift_accesskeys.png)

### Required IAM Permissions

Your IAM user or role needs the following permissions:

**For Serverless:**

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "redshift-data:ExecuteStatement",
        "redshift-data:DescribeStatement",
        "redshift-data:GetStatementResult",
        "redshift-serverless:GetCredentials"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

**For Provisioned Cluster:**

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "redshift-data:ExecuteStatement",
        "redshift-data:DescribeStatement",
        "redshift-data:GetStatementResult",
        "redshift:GetClusterCredentials"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

> **Tip:** You can attach the AWS managed policy `AmazonRedshiftDataFullAccess` for quick setup, but consider using a custom policy with minimal permissions for production.
> You can set permissions to certain database and tables for more security. Example: `"Resource": "arn:aws:redshift:us-east-1:123456789012"`

![AWS IAM policy creation interface showing Step 1: Specify permissions with a policy editor displaying JSON policy syntax. The policy editor shows Version 2012-10-17 and a Statement array with Allow Effect and Action array containing redshift-data permissions: ExecuteStatement, DescribeStatement, GetStatementResult, and redshift-serverless:GetCredentials. The Resource field is set to asterisk. The top navigation shows IAM > Policies > Create policy breadcrumb. Step 2 Review and create is visible in the left sidebar. The interface has a professional AWS management console layout with Visual and JSON tabs, and Actions dropdown buttons in the top right corner.](../../res/screens/redshift_permissions.png)

## Grand Permissions to create schemas in database

If you want to create schemas in database (upload data from connector based data mart), you need to grant permissions to the user who will be used to upload data.

```sql
GRANT CREATE ON DATABASE dev TO "IAM:<USERNAME_IN_IAM>";
```

> **Tip:** You can find your username in IAM in the [AWS IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/) in the **Users** tab.

## 5. Finalize Setup

Review your entries and click **Save** to add the **Storage configuration**, or **Cancel** to exit without saving.

Once saved, OWOX Data Marts will validate the connection to ensure all credentials are correct.

![OWOX Data Marts Configure Storage Provider dialog displaying the final configuration form. The form shows the region field set to eu-north-1, Workgroup Name field containing owox with Serverless and Provisioned tabs, Database field showing dev, and Authentication section with Access Key ID and Secret Access Key fields. A prominent blue Save button with a red arrow pointing to it is centered at the bottom of the dialog, alongside a Cancel button. The dialog has a dark background with professional layout and informational help icons throughout.](../../res/screens/redshift_saveconfig.png)

## Next Steps

After configuring your AWS Redshift storage:

1. **Create a Data Mart** that uses this storage
2. **Define your data structure** with Redshift-specific field types
3. **Configure a Connector** to load data into Redshift
4. **Run reports** and export data from your Redshift tables

## Troubleshooting

### Connection Failed

- Verify your AWS region is correct
- Ensure the database name exists in your Redshift cluster/workgroup
- Check that workgroup name or cluster identifier is spelled correctly
- Verify your Access Key ID and Secret Access Key are correct

### Permission Denied

Make sure your IAM user has the required permissions listed above. You can test permissions by running:

```bash
aws redshift-data execute-statement \
  --region us-east-1 \
  --database dev \
  --workgroup-name my-workgroup \
  --sql "SELECT 1"
```

### "Schema does not exist" Error

- Schema is now configured in the **Connector setup** (Step 5), not in Storage
- Make sure you've entered a schema name when creating the connector
- The schema will be automatically created if it doesn't exist

### Query Timeout

- Redshift Data API has a 5-minute query timeout
- For large data loads, consider breaking them into smaller batches
- Check your warehouse/cluster size and scaling settings

### Access Denied to Database

Ensure your Redshift database allows access from the IAM credentials:

**For Serverless:**

```sql
GRANT ALL ON DATABASE dev TO "IAM:<USERNAME_IN_IAM>";
```

**For Provisioned:**

```sql
GRANT ALL ON DATABASE dev TO "IAM:<USERNAME_IN_IAM>";
```

## Additional Resources

- [AWS Redshift Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/)
- [Redshift Data API Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/data-api.html)
- [IAM Permissions for Redshift](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/redshift-iam-access-control-overview.html)
- [Redshift Serverless Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/serverless-whatis.html)
